README.md, before:

<div align="center">

# 🎬 MERN Movie Analytics Dashboard

<img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/MongoDB-47A248?style=for-the-badge&logo=mongodb&logoColor=white" alt="MongoDB"/>
<img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Express-000000?style=for-the-badge&logo=express&logoColor=white" alt="Express"/>
<img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/React-61DAFB?style=for-the-badge&logo=react&logoColor=black" alt="React"/>
<img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Node.js-339933?style=for-the-badge&logo=node.js&logoColor=white" alt="Node.js"/>

<img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Material--UI-007FFF?style=for-the-badge&logo=mui&logoColor=white" alt="Material-UI"/>
<img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Framer_Motion-0055FF?style=for-the-badge&logo=framer&logoColor=white" alt="Framer Motion"/>
<img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Recharts-FF6B6B?style=for-the-badge&logo=chart.js&logoColor=white" alt="Recharts"/>
<img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Big_Data-00D4FF?style=for-the-badge&logo=databricks&logoColor=white" alt="Big Data"/>

### 🚀 A powerful movie analytics platform featuring 1,000+ movies with real-time data visualization, intelligent filtering, and stunning Vision UI Pro design

[Features](#-features) • [Tech Stack](#-tech-stack) • [Installation](#-installation) • [Big Data](#-big-data-certification) • [API](#-api-endpoints)

---

</div>

## 🎯 Big Data Features

<table>
<tr>
<td width="25%">

### 📊 Volume
- **1,001+ Movies** in MongoDB Atlas
- **20+ Languages** worldwide
- **20+ Countries** represented  
- **Real posters** from Unsplash

</td>
<td width="25%">

### ⚡ Velocity
- **100 movies/batch** processing
- **390+ movies/sec** ingestion
- **Sub-100ms** indexed queries
- **Real-time** analytics

</td>
<td width="25%">

### 🎭 Variety
- **Multi-lingual** data
- **Global** geographic coverage
- **19 genres** available
- **Mixed** data types

</td>
<td width="25%">

### 📈 Analytics
- **MongoDB pipelines** ($group, $unwind)
- **Live statistics** & trends
- **Interactive charts** (Recharts)
- **Smart filtering** system

</td>
</tr>
</table>

> 🏆 **Certified Big Data Project** - Features distributed cloud storage, batch processing, complex aggregations, and scalable architecture ready for 10K+ records

## ✨ Features

<details open>
<summary><b>🎨 Frontend Highlights</b></summary>

#### Vision UI Pro Design System
- 🌑 **Dark Theme** - Gradient background from `#0f1419` to `#1a1a2e`
- 💎 **Glassy Morphism** - Backdrop blur effects with semi-transparent cards
- ⚡ **Neon Accents** - Electric blue (`#00d4ff`) highlights throughout
- 🎭 **Smooth Animations** - Framer Motion powered transitions
- 📱 **Fully Responsive** - Optimized for mobile, tablet, and desktop

#### Interactive Dashboard
- 📊 **Animated Stat Cards** - Count-up animations with hover effects
- 📈 **Line Chart** - Temporal movie distribution with custom tooltips
- 📊 **Bar Chart** - Genre popularity visualization
- 🏆 **Top Movies Table** - Ranked list with rating badges
- 🎯 **Real-time Filters** - Instant filtering by language, country, year, genre, and rating

#### Movie Browsing
- 🔍 **Debounced Search** - Optimized search across 1,000+ movies
- 🎬 **Movie Cards** - Animated cards with real Unsplash posters
- 🌍 **Language & Country Badges** - Visual indicators for movie origin
- 🎯 **Genre Chips** - Animated filter chips with instant results
- 📖 **Detail Modal** - Rich movie information overlay
- ♾️ **Infinite Scroll** - Paginated loading for performance

#### Smart Recommendations
- 🎭 **Genre-based Filtering** - Find movies by category
- ⭐ **Rating Threshold** - Filter by minimum rating
- 🌟 **Curated Lists** - Hand-picked quality cinema

</details>

<details>
<summary><b>⚙️ Backend Power</b></summary>

#### REST API
- 🔌 **Express.js Server** - Fast, lightweight Node.js backend
- 🗄️ **MongoDB Atlas** - Cloud-distributed database with automatic scaling
- 📝 **Mongoose ODM** - Schema validation and data modeling
- 🔒 **CORS Enabled** - Secure cross-origin resource sharing

#### Advanced Features
- 🔍 **Text Search Indexes** - Lightning-fast movie queries
- 📊 **Aggregation Pipelines** - Complex analytics computations
- 🎯 **Smart Filtering** - Multi-parameter query support
- 📦 **Batch Operations** - Efficient bulk data processing
- ⚡ **Pagination** - Optimized data delivery with metadata

#### Data Management
- 🌱 **Seed Script** - Automated database population
- 📈 **Progress Tracking** - Real-time seeding status
- 🎬 **Real Movies** - 60+ curated post-2000 blockbusters
- 🤖 **Generated Data** - 940+ diverse movies for scale
- 🖼️ **Real Posters** - Unsplash integration for authentic imagery

</details>

---

## 🛠️ Tech Stack

<table>
<tr>
<td align="center" width="33%">

### Frontend
<img src="https://skillicons.dev/icons?i=react,materialui,vite" />

- **React 18.2** - Modern UI library
- **Material-UI 5.14** - Component framework
- **Framer Motion 10.16** - Animation library
- **Recharts 2.10** - Data visualization
- **React Router 6.20** - Navigation
- **Axios 1.6** - HTTP client
- **React CountUp 6.5** - Animated counters

</td>
<td align="center" width="33%">

### Backend
<img src="https://skillicons.dev/icons?i=nodejs,express,mongodb" />

- **Node.js** - Runtime environment
- **Express 4.18** - Web framework
- **MongoDB Atlas** - Cloud database
- **Mongoose 8.0** - ODM library
- **CORS** - Cross-origin support
- **dotenv** - Environment config
- **Axios 1.6** - HTTP requests

</td>
<td align="center" width="33%">

### DevOps & Tools
<img src="https://skillicons.dev/icons?i=git,github,vscode" />

- **Git** - Version control
- **GitHub** - Code hosting
- **VS Code** - IDE
- **Nodemon** - Auto-restart
- **ESLint** - Code linting
- **Prettier** - Code formatting

</td>
</tr>
</table>

---

### Smart Filtering
<img src="https://via.placeholder.com/800x400/0f1419/00d4ff?text=Advanced+Filter+System" alt="Filters" width="100%"/>

*Multi-parameter filtering by language, country, year, genre, and rating*

</div>

---

## 🚀 Quick Start

### Prerequisites

<table>
<tr>
<td>

```bash
node --version
# v14.0.0 or higher
```

</td>
<td>

```bash
npm --version  
# v6.0.0 or higher
```

</td>
<td>

```bash
# MongoDB Atlas account
# (connection string included)
```

</td>
</tr>
</table>

### Installation

```bash
# 1️⃣ Clone the repository
git clone https://github.com/yourusername/movie-dashboard.git
cd movie-dashboard

# 2️⃣ Install backend dependencies
cd server
npm install

# 3️⃣ Install frontend dependencies
cd ../client
npm install

# 4️⃣ Seed the database with 1,000+ movies
cd ../server
npm run seed

# 5️⃣ Start the backend server (Terminal 1)
npm run dev
# Server runs on http://localhost:5000

# 6️⃣ Start the frontend (Terminal 2)
cd ../client
npm start
# Frontend runs on http://localhost:3000
```

### 🎉 Success! Your app is now running

<div align="center">

**Backend:** http://localhost:5000  
**Frontend:** http://localhost:3000

</div>

---

## 📁 Project Structure

```
📦 movie-dashboard/
├── 📂 client/                          # ⚛️ React Frontend
│   ├── 📂 public/
│   │   └── index.html
│   ├── 📂 src/
│   │   ├── 📂 charts/                 # 📊 Recharts Components
│   │   │   ├── AnimatedLineChart.jsx
│   │   │   └── AnimatedBarChart.jsx
│   │   ├── 📂 components/             # 🧩 Reusable UI
│   │   │   └── StatCard.jsx
│   │   ├── 📂 hooks/                  # 🪝 Custom Hooks
│   │   │   └── useDebounce.js
│   │   ├── 📂 layout/                 # 🏗️ Layout Components
│   │   │   ├── MainLayout.jsx
│   │   │   ├── Navbar.jsx
│   │   │   └── Sidebar.jsx
│   │   ├── 📂 pages/                  # 📄 Page Views
│   │   │   ├── Dashboard.jsx         # Analytics dashboard
│   │   │   ├── Movies.jsx            # Movie browsing
│   │   │   └── Recommendations.jsx   # Smart suggestions
│   │   ├── 📂 services/               # 🌐 API Layer
│   │   │   └── api.js
│   │   ├── 📂 theme/                  # 🎨 MUI Theme
│   │   │   └── theme.js
│   │   ├── App.js                     # Root component
│   │   ├── index.js                   # Entry point
│   │   └── index.css                  # Global styles
│   └── package.json
│
├── 📂 server/                          # ⚙️ Node.js Backend
│   ├── 📂 config/
│   │   └── database.js                # 🗄️ MongoDB setup
│   ├── 📂 controllers/
│   │   └── movieController.js         # 🎮 Business logic
│   ├── 📂 models/
│   │   └── Movie.js                   # 📋 Data schema
│   ├── 📂 routes/
│   │   └── movieRoutes.js             # 🛣️ API routes
│   ├── 📂 seeds/
│   │   └── seedMovies.js              # 🌱 1,000+ movies
│   ├── .env                            # 🔐 Environment vars
│   ├── server.js                       # 🚀 Express app
│   └── package.json
│
└── 📄 README.md                        # 📖 You are here!
```

---

## 🔌 API Endpoints

### Movies

| Method | Endpoint | Description | Query Params |
|--------|----------|-------------|--------------|
| `GET` | `/api/movies` | Get all movies with filters | `search`, `genre`, `page`, `limit` |
| `GET` | `/api/movies/:id` | Get single movie by ID | - |
| `POST` | `/api/movies` | Create new movie | Body: movie object |
| `PUT` | `/api/movies/:id` | Update existing movie | Body: updated fields |
| `DELETE` | `/api/movies/:id` | Delete movie | - |

### Analytics

| Method | Endpoint | Description | Query Params |
|--------|----------|-------------|--------------|
| `GET` | `/api/movies/analytics` | Get dashboard statistics | `movieLanguage`, `movieCountry`, `year`, `genre`, `minRating` |

**Returns:**
```json
{
  "totalMovies": 1001,
  "averageRating": 7.03,
  "moviesPerYear": [...],
  "moviesPerGenre": [...],
  "moviesPerLanguage": [...],
  "moviesPerCountry": [...],
  "topRatedMovies": [...]
}
```

### Recommendations

| Method | Endpoint | Description | Query Params |
|--------|----------|-------------|--------------|
| `GET` | `/api/movies/recommendations` | Get recommended movies | `genre`, `minRating` |

---

## 🎨 Design System

<table>
<tr>
<td width="50%">

### 🎨 Color Palette

```css
/* Primary Colors */
--primary-blue: #00d4ff;
--dark-bg: #0f1419;
--darker-bg: #1a1a2e;

/* Accent Colors */
--neon-glow: rgba(0, 212, 255, 0.3);
--card-bg: rgba(255, 255, 255, 0.05);
--border: rgba(255, 255, 255, 0.1);

/* Text Colors */
--text-primary: #ffffff;
--text-secondary: rgba(255, 255, 255, 0.7);
```

</td>
<td width="50%">

### ✨ Visual Effects

```css
/* Glass Morphism */
backdrop-filter: blur(20px);
background: rgba(255, 255, 255, 0.05);

/* Neon Glow */
box-shadow: 0 0 20px rgba(0, 212, 255, 0.3);

/* Smooth Transitions */
transition: all 0.3s ease;

/* Hover Effects */
transform: translateY(-5px) scale(1.02);
```

</td>
</tr>
</table>

---

## 🎬 Featured Movies

<details>
<summary><b>🌟 Curated Post-2000 Blockbusters</b></summary>

### 🇺🇸 Hollywood Hits
- **Inception** (2010) - Christopher Nolan's mind-bending masterpiece
- **The Dark Knight** (2008) - Heath Ledger's iconic Joker performance
- **Interstellar** (2014) - Epic space odyssey
- **The Matrix Reloaded** (2003) - Groundbreaking sci-fi sequel
- **Gladiator** (2000) - Russell Crowe's Oscar-winning role

### 🇮🇳 Bollywood Brilliance
- **Dangal** (2016) - Wrestling biopic with social commentary
- **3 Idiots** (2009) - Educational comedy-drama phenomenon
- **Baahubali 2** (2017) - Epic historical fiction
- **RRR** (2022) - Action-packed period drama
- **PK** (2014) - Satirical comedy on religion

### 🇯🇵 Japanese Cinema
- **Spirited Away** (2001) - Studio Ghibli's Oscar winner
- **Your Name** (2016) - Romantic body-swap anime
- **Demon Slayer: Mugen Train** (2020) - Highest-grossing anime film
- **Weathering with You** (2019) - Makoto Shinkai's weather fantasy

### 🇰🇷 Korean Masterpieces
- **Parasite** (2019) - Oscar Best Picture winner
- **Oldboy** (2003) - Revenge thriller classic
- **The Handmaiden** (2016) - Psychological thriller

### 🌍 International Gems
- **La La Land** (2016, USA) - Musical romance
- **Mad Max: Fury Road** (2015, Australia) - Action masterpiece
- **Amélie** (2001, France) - Whimsical romantic comedy
- **Pan's Labyrinth** (2006, Spain/Mexico) - Dark fantasy
- **Roma** (2018, Mexico) - Alfonso Cuarón's Oscar winner
- **Portrait of a Lady on Fire** (2019, France) - Period romance
- **Dune** (2021, USA) - Denis Villeneuve's sci-fi epic
- **Black Panther** (2018, USA) - Marvel's cultural phenomenon

*+ 940 more diverse movies from around the world!*

</details>

---

## 🌐 Environment Configuration

Create a `.env` file in the `server/` directory:

```env
# MongoDB Atlas Connection
MONGODB_URI=mongodb+srv://root:123@movie-bd.pdmegsy.mongodb.net/?appName=movie-bd

# Server Port
PORT=5000

# Node Environment
NODE_ENV=development
```

> ⚠️ **Security Note:** For production, use environment-specific credentials and enable MongoDB IP whitelist.

---

## 💡 Key Highlights

<table>
<tr>
<td align="center">

### ⚡ Performance
- Debounced search
- Infinite scroll pagination
- Optimized MongoDB indexes
- Lazy-loaded images
- AbortController for requests

</td>
<td align="center">

### 🎨 UX Design
- Smooth Framer Motion animations
- Glassy morphism cards
- Neon-blue accent theme
- Responsive mobile layout
- Interactive hover effects

</td>
<td align="center">

### 📊 Analytics
- Real-time chart updates
- Multi-parameter filtering
- Count-up animations
- Top-rated rankings
- Genre distributions

</td>
</tr>
</table>

---

## 🎯 Future Roadmap

- [ ] 🔐 **User Authentication** - JWT-based auth with protected routes
- [ ] ⭐ **User Ratings** - Allow users to rate and review movies
- [ ] 📚 **Watchlist** - Personal movie collections
- [ ] 🎥 **Trailer Integration** - YouTube API for movie trailers
- [ ] 🔍 **Advanced Search** - Fuzzy search with Elasticsearch
- [ ] 🌐 **Social Features** - Share recommendations with friends
- [ ] 📱 **Mobile App** - React Native version
- [ ] 🤖 **AI Recommendations** - Machine learning based suggestions
- [ ] 🌍 **i18n Support** - Multi-language interface
- [ ] 📈 **Analytics Dashboard** - Admin panel with insights

---

## 🐛 Troubleshooting

<details>
<summary><b>Common Issues & Solutions</b></summary>

### MongoDB Connection Error
```bash
# Check if MongoDB Atlas IP is whitelisted
# Verify connection string in .env file
# Ensure network connectivity
```

### Port Already in Use
```bash
# Kill process on port 5000 (Windows)
netstat -ano | findstr :5000
taskkill /PID <PID> /F

# Or use different port in .env
PORT=5001
```

### Build Errors
```bash
# Clear npm cache
npm cache clean --force

# Remove node_modules and reinstall
rm -rf node_modules package-lock.json
npm install
```

### Missing Dependencies
```bash
# Install all dependencies
cd server && npm install
cd ../client && npm install
```

</details>

---

## 🤝 Contributing

Contributions are welcome! Please feel free to submit a Pull Request.

1. Fork the project
2. Create your feature branch (`git checkout -b feature/AmazingFeature`)
3. Commit your changes (`git commit -m 'Add some AmazingFeature'`)
4. Push to the branch (`git push origin feature/AmazingFeature`)
5. Open a Pull Request

---

## 📜 License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.

---

## 👨‍💻 Author

**Your Name**

- GitHub: [@yourusername](https://github.com/yourusername)
- LinkedIn: [Your Name](https://linkedin.com/in/yourname)
- Email: your.email@example.com

---

## 🙏 Acknowledgments

- **MongoDB Atlas** for cloud database hosting
- **Unsplash** for high-quality movie poster images
- **Material-UI** for the component library
- **Framer Motion** for smooth animations
- **Recharts** for data visualization
- **Vision UI Pro** for design inspiration

---

<div align="center">

### ⭐ Star this repo if you found it helpful!

**Made with ❤️ and ☕ by passionate developers**

[Report Bug](https://github.com/yourusername/movie-dashboard/issues) • [Request Feature](https://github.com/yourusername/movie-dashboard/issues) • [Documentation](https://github.com/yourusername/movie-dashboard/wiki)

</div>

Commit message:

chore: vercel deployment support (api/serverless, config, docs)

README.md, after:

<div align="center">

# 🎬 MERN Movie Analytics Dashboard

<img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/MongoDB-47A248?style=for-the-badge&logo=mongodb&logoColor=white" alt="MongoDB"/>
<img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Express-000000?style=for-the-badge&logo=express&logoColor=white" alt="Express"/>
<img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/React-61DAFB?style=for-the-badge&logo=react&logoColor=black" alt="React"/>
<img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Node.js-339933?style=for-the-badge&logo=node.js&logoColor=white" alt="Node.js"/>

<img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Material--UI-007FFF?style=for-the-badge&logo=mui&logoColor=white" alt="Material-UI"/>
<img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Framer_Motion-0055FF?style=for-the-badge&logo=framer&logoColor=white" alt="Framer Motion"/>
<img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Recharts-FF6B6B?style=for-the-badge&logo=chart.js&logoColor=white" alt="Recharts"/>
<img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Big_Data-00D4FF?style=for-the-badge&logo=databricks&logoColor=white" alt="Big Data"/>

### 🚀 A powerful movie analytics platform featuring 1,000+ movies with real-time data visualization, intelligent filtering, and stunning Vision UI Pro design

[Features](#-features) • [Tech Stack](#-tech-stack) • [Installation](#-installation) • [Big Data](#-big-data-certification) • [API](#-api-endpoints)

---

</div>

## 🎯 Big Data Features

<table>
<tr>
<td width="25%">

### 📊 Volume
- **1,001+ Movies** in MongoDB Atlas
- **20+ Languages** worldwide
- **20+ Countries** represented  
- **Real posters** from Unsplash

</td>
<td width="25%">

### ⚡ Velocity
- **100 movies/batch** processing
- **390+ movies/sec** ingestion
- **Sub-100ms** indexed queries
- **Real-time** analytics

</td>
<td width="25%">

### 🎭 Variety
- **Multi-lingual** data
- **Global** geographic coverage
- **19 genres** available
- **Mixed** data types

</td>
<td width="25%">

### 📈 Analytics
- **MongoDB pipelines** ($group, $unwind)
- **Live statistics** & trends
- **Interactive charts** (Recharts)
- **Smart filtering** system

</td>
</tr>
</table>

> 🏆 **Certified Big Data Project** - Features distributed cloud storage, batch processing, complex aggregations, and scalable architecture ready for 10K+ records

## ✨ Features

<details open>
<summary><b>🎨 Frontend Highlights</b></summary>

#### Vision UI Pro Design System
- 🌑 **Dark Theme** - Gradient background from `#0f1419` to `#1a1a2e`
- 💎 **Glassy Morphism** - Backdrop blur effects with semi-transparent cards
- ⚡ **Neon Accents** - Electric blue (`#00d4ff`) highlights throughout
- 🎭 **Smooth Animations** - Framer Motion powered transitions
- 📱 **Fully Responsive** - Optimized for mobile, tablet, and desktop

#### Interactive Dashboard
- 📊 **Animated Stat Cards** - Count-up animations with hover effects
- 📈 **Line Chart** - Temporal movie distribution with custom tooltips
- 📊 **Bar Chart** - Genre popularity visualization
- 🏆 **Top Movies Table** - Ranked list with rating badges
- 🎯 **Real-time Filters** - Instant filtering by language, country, year, genre, and rating

#### Movie Browsing
- 🔍 **Debounced Search** - Optimized search across 1,000+ movies
- 🎬 **Movie Cards** - Animated cards with real Unsplash posters
- 🌍 **Language & Country Badges** - Visual indicators for movie origin
- 🎯 **Genre Chips** - Animated filter chips with instant results
- 📖 **Detail Modal** - Rich movie information overlay
- ♾️ **Infinite Scroll** - Paginated loading for performance

#### Smart Recommendations
- 🎭 **Genre-based Filtering** - Find movies by category
- ⭐ **Rating Threshold** - Filter by minimum rating
- 🌟 **Curated Lists** - Hand-picked quality cinema

</details>

<details>
<summary><b>⚙️ Backend Power</b></summary>

#### REST API
- 🔌 **Express.js Server** - Fast, lightweight Node.js backend
- 🗄️ **MongoDB Atlas** - Cloud-distributed database with automatic scaling
- 📝 **Mongoose ODM** - Schema validation and data modeling
- 🔒 **CORS Enabled** - Secure cross-origin resource sharing

#### Advanced Features
- 🔍 **Text Search Indexes** - Lightning-fast movie queries
- 📊 **Aggregation Pipelines** - Complex analytics computations
- 🎯 **Smart Filtering** - Multi-parameter query support
- 📦 **Batch Operations** - Efficient bulk data processing
- ⚡ **Pagination** - Optimized data delivery with metadata

#### Data Management
- 🌱 **Seed Script** - Automated database population
- 📈 **Progress Tracking** - Real-time seeding status
- 🎬 **Real Movies** - 60+ curated post-2000 blockbusters
- 🤖 **Generated Data** - 940+ diverse movies for scale
- 🖼️ **Real Posters** - Unsplash integration for authentic imagery

</details>

---

## 🛠️ Tech Stack

<table>
<tr>
<td align="center" width="33%">

### Frontend
<img src="https://skillicons.dev/icons?i=react,materialui,vite" />

- **React 18.2** - Modern UI library
- **Material-UI 5.14** - Component framework
- **Framer Motion 10.16** - Animation library
- **Recharts 2.10** - Data visualization
- **React Router 6.20** - Navigation
- **Axios 1.6** - HTTP client
- **React CountUp 6.5** - Animated counters

</td>
<td align="center" width="33%">

### Backend
<img src="https://skillicons.dev/icons?i=nodejs,express,mongodb" />

- **Node.js** - Runtime environment
- **Express 4.18** - Web framework
- **MongoDB Atlas** - Cloud database
- **Mongoose 8.0** - ODM library
- **CORS** - Cross-origin support
- **dotenv** - Environment config
- **Axios 1.6** - HTTP requests

</td>
<td align="center" width="33%">

### DevOps & Tools
<img src="https://skillicons.dev/icons?i=git,github,vscode" />

- **Git** - Version control
- **GitHub** - Code hosting
- **VS Code** - IDE
- **Nodemon** - Auto-restart
- **ESLint** - Code linting
- **Prettier** - Code formatting

</td>
</tr>
</table>

---

### Smart Filtering
<img src="https://via.placeholder.com/800x400/0f1419/00d4ff?text=Advanced+Filter+System" alt="Filters" width="100%"/>

*Multi-parameter filtering by language, country, year, genre, and rating*

</div>

---

## 🚀 Quick Start

### Prerequisites

<table>
<tr>
<td>

```bash
node --version
# v14.0.0 or higher
```

</td>
<td>

```bash
npm --version  
# v6.0.0 or higher
```

</td>
<td>

```bash
# MongoDB Atlas account
# (connection string included)
```

</td>
</tr>
</table>

### Installation

```bash
# 1️⃣ Clone the repository
git clone https://github.com/yourusername/movie-dashboard.git
cd movie-dashboard

# 2️⃣ Install backend dependencies
cd server
npm install

# 3️⃣ Install frontend dependencies
cd ../client
npm install

# 4️⃣ Seed the database with 1,000+ movies
cd ../server
npm run seed

# 5️⃣ Start the backend server (Terminal 1)
npm run dev
# Server runs on http://localhost:5000

# 6️⃣ Start the frontend (Terminal 2)
cd ../client
npm start
# Frontend runs on http://localhost:3000
```

### 🎉 Success! Your app is now running

<div align="center">

**Backend:** http://localhost:5000  
**Frontend:** http://localhost:3000

</div>

---

## ☁️ Vercel Deployment

1. **Connect the repository** in Vercel by using the "Import Git Repository" flow. The root-level `vercel.json` automatically triggers a dual build:
  - `@vercel/static-build` builds the React client from `client/` and serves `client/build`.
  - `@vercel/node` exposes the Express API through `api/server.js`, with all `/api/*` routes rewritten to the serverless function.
2. **Set environment variables** inside the Vercel dashboard (Project Settings → Environment Variables):
  - `MONGODB_URI` → your MongoDB Atlas connection string (includes credentials and cluster).
  - Optional: `REACT_APP_API_URL` if you prefer an absolute API URL; otherwise the client defaults to `/api` and automatically targets the same Vercel domain.
3. **Deploy**. Every push to `main` is now auto-built; Preview deployments mirror production configuration.

> 🧪 Local tip: create `client/.env.local` with `REACT_APP_API_URL=http://localhost:5000/api` when running the CRA dev server so that it talks to the local Express instance.

---

## 📁 Project Structure

```
📦 movie-dashboard/
├── 📂 client/                          # ⚛️ React Frontend
│   ├── 📂 public/
│   │   └── index.html
│   ├── 📂 src/
│   │   ├── 📂 charts/                 # 📊 Recharts Components
│   │   │   ├── AnimatedLineChart.jsx
│   │   │   └── AnimatedBarChart.jsx
│   │   ├── 📂 components/             # 🧩 Reusable UI
│   │   │   └── StatCard.jsx
│   │   ├── 📂 hooks/                  # 🪝 Custom Hooks
│   │   │   └── useDebounce.js
│   │   ├── 📂 layout/                 # 🏗️ Layout Components
│   │   │   ├── MainLayout.jsx
│   │   │   ├── Navbar.jsx
│   │   │   └── Sidebar.jsx
│   │   ├── 📂 pages/                  # 📄 Page Views
│   │   │   ├── Dashboard.jsx         # Analytics dashboard
│   │   │   ├── Movies.jsx            # Movie browsing
│   │   │   └── Recommendations.jsx   # Smart suggestions
│   │   ├── 📂 services/               # 🌐 API Layer
│   │   │   └── api.js
│   │   ├── 📂 theme/                  # 🎨 MUI Theme
│   │   │   └── theme.js
│   │   ├── App.js                     # Root component
│   │   ├── index.js                   # Entry point
│   │   └── index.css                  # Global styles
│   └── package.json
│
├── 📂 server/                          # ⚙️ Node.js Backend
│   ├── 📂 config/
│   │   └── database.js                # 🗄️ MongoDB setup
│   ├── 📂 controllers/
│   │   └── movieController.js         # 🎮 Business logic
│   ├── 📂 models/
│   │   └── Movie.js                   # 📋 Data schema
│   ├── 📂 routes/
│   │   └── movieRoutes.js             # 🛣️ API routes
│   ├── 📂 seeds/
│   │   └── seedMovies.js              # 🌱 1,000+ movies
│   ├── .env                            # 🔐 Environment vars
│   ├── server.js                       # 🚀 Express app
│   └── package.json
│
└── 📄 README.md                        # 📖 You are here!
```

---

## 🔌 API Endpoints

### Movies

| Method | Endpoint | Description | Query Params |
|--------|----------|-------------|--------------|
| `GET` | `/api/movies` | Get all movies with filters | `search`, `genre`, `page`, `limit` |
| `GET` | `/api/movies/:id` | Get single movie by ID | - |
| `POST` | `/api/movies` | Create new movie | Body: movie object |
| `PUT` | `/api/movies/:id` | Update existing movie | Body: updated fields |
| `DELETE` | `/api/movies/:id` | Delete movie | - |

### Analytics

| Method | Endpoint | Description | Query Params |
|--------|----------|-------------|--------------|
| `GET` | `/api/movies/analytics` | Get dashboard statistics | `movieLanguage`, `movieCountry`, `year`, `genre`, `minRating` |

**Returns:**
```json
{
  "totalMovies": 1001,
  "averageRating": 7.03,
  "moviesPerYear": [...],
  "moviesPerGenre": [...],
  "moviesPerLanguage": [...],
  "moviesPerCountry": [...],
  "topRatedMovies": [...]
}
```

### Recommendations

| Method | Endpoint | Description | Query Params |
|--------|----------|-------------|--------------|
| `GET` | `/api/movies/recommendations` | Get recommended movies | `genre`, `minRating` |

---

## 🎨 Design System

<table>
<tr>
<td width="50%">

### 🎨 Color Palette

```css
/* Primary Colors */
--primary-blue: #00d4ff;
--dark-bg: #0f1419;
--darker-bg: #1a1a2e;

/* Accent Colors */
--neon-glow: rgba(0, 212, 255, 0.3);
--card-bg: rgba(255, 255, 255, 0.05);
--border: rgba(255, 255, 255, 0.1);

/* Text Colors */
--text-primary: #ffffff;
--text-secondary: rgba(255, 255, 255, 0.7);
```

</td>
<td width="50%">

### ✨ Visual Effects

```css
/* Glass Morphism */
backdrop-filter: blur(20px);
background: rgba(255, 255, 255, 0.05);

/* Neon Glow */
box-shadow: 0 0 20px rgba(0, 212, 255, 0.3);

/* Smooth Transitions */
transition: all 0.3s ease;

/* Hover Effects */
transform: translateY(-5px) scale(1.02);
```

</td>
</tr>
</table>

---

## 🎬 Featured Movies

<details>
<summary><b>🌟 Curated Post-2000 Blockbusters</b></summary>

### 🇺🇸 Hollywood Hits
- **Inception** (2010) - Christopher Nolan's mind-bending masterpiece
- **The Dark Knight** (2008) - Heath Ledger's iconic Joker performance
- **Interstellar** (2014) - Epic space odyssey
- **The Matrix Reloaded** (2003) - Groundbreaking sci-fi sequel
- **Gladiator** (2000) - Russell Crowe's Oscar-winning role

### 🇮🇳 Bollywood Brilliance
- **Dangal** (2016) - Wrestling biopic with social commentary
- **3 Idiots** (2009) - Educational comedy-drama phenomenon
- **Baahubali 2** (2017) - Epic historical fiction
- **RRR** (2022) - Action-packed period drama
- **PK** (2014) - Satirical comedy on religion

### 🇯🇵 Japanese Cinema
- **Spirited Away** (2001) - Studio Ghibli's Oscar winner
- **Your Name** (2016) - Romantic body-swap anime
- **Demon Slayer: Mugen Train** (2020) - Highest-grossing anime film
- **Weathering with You** (2019) - Makoto Shinkai's weather fantasy

### 🇰🇷 Korean Masterpieces
- **Parasite** (2019) - Oscar Best Picture winner
- **Oldboy** (2003) - Revenge thriller classic
- **The Handmaiden** (2016) - Psychological thriller

### 🌍 International Gems
- **La La Land** (2016, USA) - Musical romance
- **Mad Max: Fury Road** (2015, Australia) - Action masterpiece
- **Amélie** (2001, France) - Whimsical romantic comedy
- **Pan's Labyrinth** (2006, Spain/Mexico) - Dark fantasy
- **Roma** (2018, Mexico) - Alfonso Cuarón's Oscar winner
- **Portrait of a Lady on Fire** (2019, France) - Period romance
- **Dune** (2021, USA) - Denis Villeneuve's sci-fi epic
- **Black Panther** (2018, USA) - Marvel's cultural phenomenon

*+ 940 more diverse movies from around the world!*

</details>

---

## 🌐 Environment Configuration

Create a `.env` file in the `server/` directory:

```env
# MongoDB Atlas Connection
MONGODB_URI=mongodb+srv://root:123@movie-bd.pdmegsy.mongodb.net/?appName=movie-bd

# Server Port
PORT=5000

# Node Environment
NODE_ENV=development
```

> ⚠️ **Security Note:** For production, use environment-specific credentials and enable MongoDB IP whitelist.

---

## 💡 Key Highlights

<table>
<tr>
<td align="center">

### ⚡ Performance
- Debounced search
- Infinite scroll pagination
- Optimized MongoDB indexes
- Lazy-loaded images
- AbortController for requests

</td>
<td align="center">

### 🎨 UX Design
- Smooth Framer Motion animations
- Glassy morphism cards
- Neon-blue accent theme
- Responsive mobile layout
- Interactive hover effects

</td>
<td align="center">

### 📊 Analytics
- Real-time chart updates
- Multi-parameter filtering
- Count-up animations
- Top-rated rankings
- Genre distributions

</td>
</tr>
</table>

---

## 🎯 Future Roadmap

- [ ] 🔐 **User Authentication** - JWT-based auth with protected routes
- [ ] ⭐ **User Ratings** - Allow users to rate and review movies
- [ ] 📚 **Watchlist** - Personal movie collections
- [ ] 🎥 **Trailer Integration** - YouTube API for movie trailers
- [ ] 🔍 **Advanced Search** - Fuzzy search with Elasticsearch
- [ ] 🌐 **Social Features** - Share recommendations with friends
- [ ] 📱 **Mobile App** - React Native version
- [ ] 🤖 **AI Recommendations** - Machine learning based suggestions
- [ ] 🌍 **i18n Support** - Multi-language interface
- [ ] 📈 **Analytics Dashboard** - Admin panel with insights

---

## 🐛 Troubleshooting

<details>
<summary><b>Common Issues & Solutions</b></summary>

### MongoDB Connection Error
```bash
# Check if MongoDB Atlas IP is whitelisted
# Verify connection string in .env file
# Ensure network connectivity
```

### Port Already in Use
```bash
# Kill process on port 5000 (Windows)
netstat -ano | findstr :5000
taskkill /PID <PID> /F

# Or use different port in .env
PORT=5001
```

### Build Errors
```bash
# Clear npm cache
npm cache clean --force

# Remove node_modules and reinstall
rm -rf node_modules package-lock.json
npm install
```

### Missing Dependencies
```bash
# Install all dependencies
cd server && npm install
cd ../client && npm install
```

</details>

---

## 🤝 Contributing

Contributions are welcome! Please feel free to submit a Pull Request.

1. Fork the project
2. Create your feature branch (`git checkout -b feature/AmazingFeature`)
3. Commit your changes (`git commit -m 'Add some AmazingFeature'`)
4. Push to the branch (`git push origin feature/AmazingFeature`)
5. Open a Pull Request

---

## 📜 License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.

---

## 👨‍💻 Author

**Your Name**

- GitHub: [@yourusername](https://github.com/yourusername)
- LinkedIn: [Your Name](https://linkedin.com/in/yourname)
- Email: your.email@example.com

---

## 🙏 Acknowledgments

- **MongoDB Atlas** for cloud database hosting
- **Unsplash** for high-quality movie poster images
- **Material-UI** for the component library
- **Framer Motion** for smooth animations
- **Recharts** for data visualization
- **Vision UI Pro** for design inspiration

---

<div align="center">

### ⭐ Star this repo if you found it helpful!

**Made with ❤️ and ☕ by passionate developers**

[Report Bug](https://github.com/yourusername/movie-dashboard/issues) • [Request Feature](https://github.com/yourusername/movie-dashboard/issues) • [Documentation](https://github.com/yourusername/movie-dashboard/wiki)

</div>
